yacctogold

     
Format 
    yacctogold [Options] YACC-File GOLD-File
     
Overview 
    This utility program will convert a grammar written using the YACC 
    Meta-language to the GOLD Meta-language. 
    
    The program will create the "hidden" rules that are implied with
    the %left and %right YACC directives. The %prec directive, which is 
    primarily used for unary operators, is also supported.
    
    Currently, all other YACC directives such as embedded code, %union, 
    %type, etc... are parsed by this utility program, but are discarded.


About YACC
    One of the oldest and most respected parsing engine generators available
    to developers is YACC. Like "vi" "grep" and "awk", this software is 
    considered the de facto standard in the UNIX world. YACC, which is an 
    acronym for Yet Another Compiler-Compiler, was developed by Stephen C.
    Johnson at AT&T 
    
    YACC can be used to create parsers using the C and C++ programming 
    languages. 
    
    The term "YACC" actually refers to two separate compiler-compilers, 
    "lex" and "yacc", which constitute the development platform. Each 
    application is used to generate a different part of the parsing 
    system and, in turn, use  different input files with the same generic 
    format, but varying semantics. 
     
    The "lex" application generates a new program called "lex.yy.c" which 
    implements the tokenizer using a Deterministic Finite Automaton. The 
    other application, "yacc", generates a new program called "y.tab.c" 
    which implements a LALR parsing algorithm. Once each application has 
    created their respective program, both can be combined to create the 
    complete system. 
    
    
Details    
    Options
        -uniform, +uniform        
            If this flag is set to true, each production will be indented the 
            same number of spaces from the left hand margin. This format makes 
            large grammars much easier to read. 
            
            If set to false, the width of the rule's name will be used to 
            indent each of the productions. This was the original format used
            by the GOLD Meta-Language. For small grammars, this format is 
            ideal.
            
            The style you select has no effect how the grammar is interpreted
            by the Builder. By default, this flag is set to true.
            
        -underscores, +underscores
            In YACC, rule names follow the same syntax as C++ identifiers. 
            Often they include underscores or compound words. Examples 
            include: stmt_list and STMT_LIST.
             
            If this this flag is set to true, the system will convert all 
            underscores to spaces. The default value is true.
            
        -case, +case
            In many cases, the YACC grammar will use a change in typecase to 
            represent new words. This is common in most programming languages. 
            If this option is set to true, a space will be inserted whenever
            the typecase changes. The default value is true.
            

    YACC File 
        Required. This file contains the grammar written in the YACC 
        Meta-language
        
    GOLD File 
        Required. This file will be created by the utility program. The
        filename is required since the extension used for YACC files 
        varies and, sometimes, can be .grm - which is the de-facto
        extension for GOLD files.
        